1. Epidemiology: recreate a city within Factorio taking into account the city logistics and then emulate the spread of coronavirus (or other pandemics) using forest fire algorithms. A similar algorithm is already available in vanilla Factorio (the biters). We could modify them to better represent the transmission of disease or make another similar algorithm from a scratch. 
2. Combustion science: use the explosion physics in Factorio to create detailed heterogeneous combustion models. Your mastery of conveyor belts would be particularly helpful, since the arrays of belts represent very well the flow of combustible materials in pipes. Your analogous ray-casting engine with a belt screen could also be used for advanced pseudo-3D models of combustion. Creating explosions-based Game of Life simulations or CPU would also be very cool. 
3. Materials Science: introducing realistic material degradation models, in which the parts can break down due to wear, corrosion, fatigue, mechanical failure, etc. To complement this system, we will develop an advanced materials design mod in which the outcome (properties of materials) would depend on chosen temperature, pressure, composition, and processing time, as well as the features of the equipment.  
4. Industrial design: implement the digital doubles of real-life factories in Factorio with realistic materials behavior in order to test the designs against environmental pressure and optimize it. We could also introduce the real-life market uncertainties in the environment: make a stock market where players can buy and sell resources, with realistic price dynamics.     
5. Training neural networks to run/develop factories in Factorio. This will be particularly computationally expensive since a lot of tries are required, so we could use p2p cluster computations (Clusterio mod). 
6. Using the Factorio mod with realistic materials as a tool for immersive materials science education. I have some experience with creating massive online courses (on EdX), so we could develop a dedicated EdX course to complement the mod.    

Here is the list of my academic works: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=eLepg1UAAAAJ&hl=ru 

Vorotilo Stepan, Ph.D. in Materials Science and Engineering 
